ECHO India is a non-profit trust that was founded in 2008 with a mission to promote equity in Healthcare, Education and other Sustainable Development Goals. The organization achieves this goal by providing capacity-building programs for healthcare professionals, educators and community workers.ECHO India's innovative 'Hub and Spoke' Model of learning involves a team of experts serving as the hub, mentoring and training the spokes, who are a cohort of learners. This approach is facilitated through a cutting-edge digital infrastructure that enables scalable and sustainable capacity building in a cost-effective manner.

ECHO India aims to impact the lives of 400 million people in India by the end of 2025. To achieve this goal, in collaboration with our partners, we have launched over 250 hubs and implemented 800 capacity-building programs that cover more than 30 disease areas. These programs have witnessed over a million attendances from healthcare workers and educators across the country, with remarkable results. The ECHO Model's 'All Teach All Learn' framework has been proven effective and has been validated by over 500 peer-reviewed articles published in renowned national and international journals, such as The New England Journal of Medicine and The Lancet.

ECHO India has joined forces with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and 28 state National Health Missions (NHMs), municipal corporations, nursing councils, and esteemed medical institutions across India. Some of our leading institutional partners include AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences), NIMHANS (National Institute of Mental Health & Neurological Sciences), NITRD (National Institute for Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases), NICPR (National Institute of Cancer Prevention & Research), Tata Memorial Hospital, and PGIMER (Post Graduate Institute for Medical Education & Research). By collaborating with these entities, ECHO India is making significant strides toward strengthening the country's healthcare system.